[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: If you're
a health fanatic like I am,
you're going to
love this program.
If you're not a health
fanatic, well, you're
going to learn something.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with our
special guest, Dr. Bradley
Nelson, who is a world-renowned
specialist in the emerging
field of bioenergetic medicine
and energy psychology.
He's the author of a bestselling
book called "The Emotion Code."
He's been on Gaia before,
and he's back with me now.
Bradley, welcome to the program.
>>BRADLEY NELSON:
Thank you, George.
Great to be here.
>>NOORY: How did
you get involved
in bioenergetic healing?
>>NELSON: Well--
>>NOORY: It's not something
you wake up in the morning
and say, this is what I'm
going to do for a living.
>>NELSON: No, that's right.
Well, it really started
when I was seven years old.
I had a miraculous
thing that happened.
I was really sick
with the measles.
My father prayed for me
to be able to get well.
The plan was I was going into
the hospital the next day,
and I was healed instantly.
And when you go from being
really, really sick one moment
to being totally well
in the next instant,
you don't ever forget that.
And so that taught me that
there's a higher power.
There's some other power
that we can draw upon.
Well, so then fast
forward a number of years.
I ended up developing
kidney disease,
and there was nothing that
could be done for me medically.
But I was healed through
some holistic doctors
who worked with me.
And so that, again,
was another layer.
I thought, OK, this
is what I want to do.
When I was 13 years
old, I decided
I wanted to be a healer
for the rest of my life.
But I wanted to be
that kind of healer.
I wanted to heal
people naturally.
So then, time went
on, I got involved
in computers and
computer programming
and so on, and I was
about six months away
from going into the MBA
program at the university
that I was attending.
And I went home to Montana,
and my father, out of the blue,
said to me, are
you sure that you
don't want to go into
the healing arts,
because you've always
wanted to do it?
And I said, no, I'm going
this other direction.
So that dream had kind of faded.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>NELSON: So he said,
well, why don't you
think about it one more time?
And those were probably the
most important words anybody
has ever spoken to me.
>>NOORY: That's
what dads are for.
>>NELSON: Exactly right.
And so my wife and I made up pro
and con lists, the healing arts
or the MBA and the
business world,
and I still didn't
know what to do.
So that night I got
on my knees, knowing
that there was this higher power
we can draw upon, and I prayed.
And I said, God, if you have
any idea about what I should do,
help me to know.
And that night I
had this experience
where I was awakened
three different times.
And each time that
I was awakened,
my mind was full of
thoughts about how great it
is to heal people
naturally and serve people.
And then the next day I
woke up and I thought, well,
I still don't know.
And so the next night, I'm
on my knees again asking,
and on that second night I had
the same experience three more
times, except this time each
experience was geometrically
more powerful, like,
logarithmically more
powerfully, if you can imagine.
So then on the second
night, the third time
I had this experience, the
thoughts of service to mankind
and the whole planet,
the whole world,
was just absolutely
overwhelming.
And I heard a voice
that spoke to me.
And the voice said, this
is a sacred calling.
And I thought, OK,
that's the answer.
I get it.
I didn't know what
that meant, really.
But I believe now that any
time we're working on someone,
any time you're
working on the body--
because the body, I believe,
literally is a temple,
and I had an experience
once that showed me that.
And when we're healing people,
helping people in any way
naturally, we're
doing something that's
sacred because our
existence is sacred.
So that was it.
I went to chiropractic school.
When I got out, I figured,
well, that higher power
has gotten me into this.
Maybe that higher
power will help me.
And so with each person that
I saw over many, many years,
before I'd work on someone,
I would just take a moment
and offer this silent
prayer for help.
And there were times,
George, during those years,
where somebody would
come in to see me
and I didn't know how to
deal with their problem,
I didn't know how to approach
what they had going on,
and I would offer
that silent prayer.
And this was a totally private,
totally personal thing.
Nobody ever knew I
was asking for help.
>>NOORY: Not even the patient?
>>NELSON: No, no, no, no.
Nobody ever knew.
It was a totally
personal thing, and it
was just a momentary
thing, really,
just trying to connect
and ask for help.
There were times, though,
when the information I needed
would just literally
flood into my being
like a data dump from
above of what to do
and how to approach this and
how to conceptualize this
and how to look at this,
and it was often in ways
that I'd never even imagined and
that nobody else had, really,
either.
And so it was an amazing thing.
Well, one of the
biggest things that I
learned was that
all of my patients,
no matter what they
were suffering from,
no matter how old or young they
were, no matter whether they
were dealing with depression
or anxiety or phobias or panic
attacks or physical problems
or cancer or infertility,
whatever it was, they were
all suffering from something
that I came to call
emotional baggage.
And that's why I
eventually got this message
to write this book, "The Emotion
Code," because I found that--
>>NOORY: Great book, by the way.
>>NELSON: Yeah, thank you.
>>NOORY: Great book.
>>NELSON: Yes.
And thank you for having
me on all those years ago--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>NELSON: --right after
it first came out.
>>NOORY: I remember that.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
Yeah, that was--
>>NOORY: That helped
zoom it, I hope.
>>NELSON: It did, yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Doctor, it's amazing
how you're able to tap
into this so-called
source for healing.
>>NELSON: Right.
Well, we all have
that capability.
It's just most-- the
problem is, I think,
that most people don't realize
that they have the ability
to ask and get help.
But we do.
We can ask, and we can get help,
and I know that that's true,
and I know that that
higher power is real
and is aware of what's
going on in our lives
all the time because I had those
experiences in my practice.
So it was a remarkable thing.
Well, eventually I got the
feeling and the message
that I needed to write a
book about the Emotion Code
and get it out
there to everybody.
And so I left my
practice in 2004.
The book came out in 2007.
It's coming out in hardcover
in the spring of 2019.
And about a year after "The
Emotion Code" came out,
I had this experience where
I was awakened one morning
to find my mind
full of instruction,
and the instruction
was really specific.
And the instruction
was, you need
to take everything that you've
learned about natural healing
and put it into a
self-study course
that anyone can learn and
make it available to everyone,
everywhere.
And so that's what the next
level of this for me was,
was creating what we
call the Body Code.
And the Body Code is just that.
It's a self-study course.
We believe it's the most
advanced self-study course
available.
And it's also a
patented software
that enables people to basically
open the subconscious mind
and ask the subconscious
what is really going on
because the conscious
mind is where we live,
and our conscious minds
really aren't that smart.
We like to think we're smart.
But we don't remember what
happened yesterday, we
don't remember what we had
for breakfast last Wednesday,
and we forget all kinds of
things and get in trouble.
>>NOORY: The mind has a
way of cleaning things out
of your brain, doesn't it?
>>NELSON: Yeah.
Exactly right.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's like a computer
cleaning out your system.
>>NELSON: It is.
It's continually cleaning, and
sometimes things that we'd like
to remember, we don't.
But the subconscious
mind is the part of us
that is this vast, vast
computer, this holographic--
>>NOORY: It
remembers everything.
>>NELSON: It remembers
everything, everything
you've ever done,
every face you've ever
seen in a crowd, everything
you've ever eaten or tasted
or touched or smelled.
It's all in there in this
holographic computer.
And it also knows exactly what
needs to be done for a person
to get well and manifest total
perfect abundance in health
and love and everything else.
And so it was during
those years in my practice
that I was trying to
figure out what was
really wrong with my patients.
I was really obsessed, frankly,
at getting to the underlying
causes.
I didn't want to
Band-Aid people.
I wanted to really
figure out why they
were having these problems.
And so what I learned
was there are really
six underlying imbalances,
six categories of imbalances.
>>NOORY: We'll go through those
imbalances in a moment, too,
and you can point them out.
But are you saying that
people can heal themselves?
>>NELSON: People can heal
themselves to a great degree,
and that's really what's
driving this global success
of the Emotion Code,
and the Body Code
as well, that people are
learning that they each have
this ability, this
birthright, I like
to call it, to be a healer.
And it's amazingly
empowering for people
to learn that they have this
ability built right in them.
And I believe that everybody on
the planet, every man, woman,
and child has this ability.
It's latent in just
about everybody.
>>NOORY: You just
have to pull it out.
>>NELSON: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Dr. Larry
Dossey, in one
of his books called
"Healing Words," talked
about the power of
prayer in healing.
>>LISA GARR: So exactly
how does this work?
How does the power of prayer
affect lowering blood pressure,
speeding up recovery
times after surgery,
lowering the incidence
of heart attacks?
How does that work?
>>LARRY DOSSEY: There
are several mechanisms
that have been proposed.
One is just a simple
relaxation and feeling calm.
People who enter into a
state of prayer or meditation
have long been known to have
good physiological responses
to that.
The blood pressure goes down.
Respirations tend to diminish.
Oxygen demand goes down.
Heart rate tends to fall.
So these are some of
the things that we've
known for a long time
about how prayer benefits
the person who's praying.
Now, the interesting
question comes
when you inquire about
how prayer might affect
somebody else at a distance.
>>LISA: Oh, that's
what it does to you.
OK.
>>DOSSEY: Yes.
And so there are many theories
about how this sort of thing
can work.
I think it's only fair to say
that no one knows, currently,
what the explanation
will turn out to be.
The going popular notions is
that people are entangled.
This is a concept that comes
from quantum mechanics.
And even though things seem
to be divided and separate
and far apart, quantum
physics gives us
a way of understanding
how things
can be separate
and at a distance,
yet behave as if
they are united.
The pop word is
"entanglement" in physics.
Let me add, though,
that whether or not this
is going to prove to be
the explanation for prayer
is really up in the air.
>>NOORY: Dr. Nelson, when we
pray, what are we tapping into?
>>NELSON: We're tapping
into the power that
created the universe,
the power that
holds all the planets
in their orbits,
the power that is giving
life to everything,
the power that's in everything
and through everything.
And so to go through our
lives without tapping
into that power, I
think, is a real shame
because we can tap into that
power and we can get answers
and we can get help.
And I know that that's
actually how it is.
>>NOORY: Do you find
that some negative people
are more sickly than people
who are positive and upbeat?
>>NELSON: Well, absolutely.
I mean-- and of course,
what the Emotion Code is
about is about how the emotional
experiences that we go through
can stay with us in the
form of emotional baggage
or, in other words, energies,
negative emotional energies
that become trapped in the body.
And the more of those we
have, the more difficult
it is for us to feel
positive and to really
manifest what we're supposed
to be able to manifest
in our lives.
And when you release enough
of your emotional baggage,
it's almost like stepping
out of this old skin
that you've been walking
around in all your life
and stepping out into
this new state of being
that's much closer to what
you are really supposed to be
and how you're supposed
to be in this world.
>>NOORY: What if we're
not tapping into a source,
but it's our own personal
abilities to do this?
Is that possible?
>>NELSON: I think
that it is, yes.
I think that the power of
our own subconscious mind
is beyond our ability
to really comprehend.
I mean, if you think about it,
they say the average cell is
equivalent in complexity to a
full-size aircraft carrier--
>>NOORY: Geez.
I was in the Navy, so I know
what you're talking about.
>>NELSON: --with 10,000 people
working onboard and jets with
their engines pulled up on
the ramp, ready to take off,
and people working on electric
countermeasures and all kinds
of--
>>NOORY: Planes
coming up and down.
>>NELSON: Absolutely.
Yeah.
One cell is like
that, that complex.
If you're an adult, you have
about 137 trillion cells
like that in your body.
And what's running all of that?
And I believe that--
my own belief is that it is
your own subconscious mind that
is running all of that.
And I think it's being
assisted and helped
by this energy that
fills the universe.
But I think that we can do a
lot with our own subconscious
power.
But I've come to believe
that, as far as healing goes,
that the highest
duty of the healer
is to act as a go-between
for that higher power.
And it's easy to do.
If you just take just a
moment and ask for that help,
it's immediately there.
>>NOORY: Why are some people
able to do this and other
people can't?
>>NELSON: Well, I
think it has a lot
to do with their own
experiences and the amount
of emotional baggage
that they have.
>>NOORY: And bring with them.
>>NELSON: And what they
brought with them and what
they've inherited from their
own ancestors, as well--
and that's one of the
things in the Emotion Code
that's really
beautiful, that we can
find inherited emotional
baggage and release that.
And a lot of the time,
that's interfering
with our ability to really
create the life that we want.
The way I look at
it is this, George.
We have this-- we are beings
that are capable of perfection.
In this life,
though, what happens
is we end up with a lot of these
little dark clouds within us,
and those are from the
experiences that we've
been through, our divorce,
our abuse as a child,
difficult work
situations, and the things
that we've inherited.
Yeah.
And so as we start to get rid
of those things, what happens
is the light beings that we
are begins to be able to shine
more and more brightly.
And as that's
happening, we change.
It changes how we feel.
We become more capable
of giving and receiving
unconditional love.
We become clearer.
We become more able to really
manifest into the world
what we're supposed to
be able to manifest.
I believe that everybody
has a blueprint
within their heart
of the perfect life
that they can live, and
the vast majority of people
don't ever come close to that.
But by getting
rid of the baggage
that we have, by
healing these bodies,
and not only by getting
rid of emotional baggage,
but also by getting
rid of things
that shouldn't be in our bodies,
like pathogens and chemical
toxins and dental toxins--
and all of this
kind of stuff needs
to be gotten out of the body.
The more we do that,
the more we come
back to who we're
supposed to be,
and that's where we
start to really vibrate
at a level of joy.
>>NOORY: I mean,
dental toxins could
be the worst of all of them.
Can't they?
>>NELSON: Well, they
certainly are right up there.
They definitely can.
I mean, mercury, which is
in all the amalgam fillings
that people still
have walking around--
>>NOORY: I had all mine
taken out by the way.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
Oh, me too, yeah.
>>NOORY: Just ceramic.
>>NELSON: The only thing more
toxic, I guess, than mercury
is plutonium.
You wouldn't put
that into your teeth.
>>NOORY: No, not at all.
In your book "The
Emotion Code," you
talk about, as you mentioned,
the six imbalances.
What are they?
>>NELSON: Well, the
six imbalances--
what this has to do with
is really the foundation
of the Body Code.
During all those years
that I was in practice,
I was trying to
figure out what was
really wrong with my
patients, of course.
And what I found was that they
all had something in common,
and that was they
were all suffering
from these different
kinds of imbalances.
And I was able to
categorize those
into six different categories.
And so these imbalances
are things like pathogens.
So in other words, these
are little infections
that get into the body--
viruses, bacteria,
fungal infections,
mold, parasites.
If those are in your body, if
any of those are in your body
and they're living in your body,
you need to get rid of them
to be totally healthy.
Another kind of imbalance is
a structural misalignment.
And I found as a
chiropractor, of course,
that realigning bones and things
made tremendous differences
for people.
As time went on, though, I found
that any tissue can misalign.
And when you have a
misaligned bone or tissue,
there's almost always
an underlying reason
that is below that that's
actually causing that.
And that's why people
sometimes will get realigned
and they'll-- and
this happened to me.
I had patients
that would come in
and I would realign
their spine, and they'd
come back the next week and it
would all be out of alignment
again.
And that started me
really wondering--
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>NELSON: --what's
the mechanism here?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>NELSON: What's
really going on?
>>NOORY: What's happening
to these people?
>>NELSON: Yeah, exactly.
And so that's another kind
of imbalance-- misalignment.
Any tissue that's misaligned
will cause trouble.
Another area is
nutritional and lifestyle.
So obviously if you're not
getting the right chemicals,
nutrients in the body--
>>NOORY: And that might
be the easiest to fix.
>>NELSON: Oftentimes it is.
And I think that people have
the most awareness about this.
I remember when I
was a kid growing up,
my mom was considered
a health nut,
and people actually
thought she was a nut.
And people did think she
was crazy because vitamins,
nobody needs those.
Now we all know we need those.
But different foods
and things like
that, you've got
to make sure you're
getting enough of those things.
And then another kind of
imbalance is toxicity.
If you have toxins
in the body, you
need to move those out of the
body to be totally healthy.
Another kind of imbalance
has to do with the circuits
in the systems of the body.
The body is very
highly organized.
There are acupuncture
circuits and systems,
and you've got the
respiratory system
and the digestive
system, and all
those need to be
functioning right.
But another thing that we
found that's in the Body Code
is the connection between the
spirit and the physical body.
What I believe is
that within us, we
have this spirit that
looks just like us.
If you could take
it out of your body
and put it right
next to you, I think
it would look exactly like you.
And I always used
to wonder, what's
the interface between these two?
Because when somebody dies
and you go to the funeral
and you look at the person
lying there in the casket,
obviously there's
something that's different.
>>NOORY: Yes
>>NELSON: And at the
moment of death, we
lose a certain amount of weight.
And what is that?
Well, I believe
that's that spirit.
And of course--
>>NOORY: It's the soul, right?
>>NELSON: It's the soul, yeah.
Initially they called
it the chi or the qi,
I think, or the prana, depending
on where you were in the world.
But that part of us--
you see, when we're alive
and we're living in
our physical body,
those two need to
somehow connect.
And I used to wonder about
this and ponder about this.
And we still don't
know how they connect,
but they do on a profound level.
And what we have found
is that sometimes things
can break down there.
And that's one of the
things that is also
that we include
in the Body Code,
that you can find those kinds
of disconnections and fix those.
In fact, let me tell you
a story that really is
what got this started for me.
My wife was really
sick with our youngest
daughter who just moved out.
My wife and I, now, are empty
nesters for the first time.
So it's kind of
interesting so far.
>>NOORY: It's strange.
It's strange.
I went through that too.
>>NELSON: Yeah,
it's strange so far.
But we're having a good time.
But when my wife was pregnant
with her 19 or so years ago,
she was really sick
with morning sickness.
And she was begging
me to help her.
And I was thinking
about the things
that we usually do to help
morning sickness, which
don't really work all that
well, like the wrist bands
and eating ginger and so on.
So I offered a silent
prayer about this.
I said, God, there's got to be
a better way to look at this
and help this problem.
And I suddenly had
this information
that flowed into
me, and it basically
had to do with the
connection between the mother
and the fetus, that if that
connection is not fully there--
and it's an energetic
connection--
if that connection
is not fully there,
then morning sickness
is the result.
So I thought, OK, well,
let's try this out.
So I worked on my
wife, and I was
able to make the reconnections.
And suddenly, instantly, the
morning sickness was gone.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>NELSON: And so I thought,
this is really amazing.
And every woman that I've--
>>NOORY: And she felt great?
>>NELSON: Oh yeah,
she felt great.
A couple of days later, it kind
of started to come back again,
and I rechecked her, and
another little connection
needed to be made.
But we have practitioners
now who just practice,
and this is their focus
and their specialty
is fixing nausea or fixing
morning sickness just
by making these reconnections.
So it's really an amazing thing.
>>NOORY: It really is.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: The last
imbalance is called
trapped emotions, isn't it?
>>NELSON: Well, the last
imbalance, really, we
call energies, but it
includes trapped emotions,
and it includes other
things, as well.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>>NELSON: OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I believe, without
question, the single biggest
underlying common
denominator for all of us,
with all the illnesses that we
suffer from, whether they're
physical ailments such as
chronic fatigue or fibromyalgia
or asthma or infertility
or the aches and pains
that we suffer from or the
depression, the anxiety,
the panic attacks, the
phobias, the self-sabotage
that so many of us
deal with, is actually
what I call emotional baggage.
It's actually the trapped
emotional energies
that are still with us
from those emotional events
that we have passed through in
our lives, from our divorce,
from our abuse as a child,
from our difficult work.
Those energy stay with
us and disrupt our lives
and cause our diseases and
much of our self-sabotage.
It's really true that as we
start to release emotions,
it is like peeling off
the layers of an onion.
Some of those may have occurred
when they were a child.
Some of those may have
happened during their divorce
or during their working years or
during college or high school.
And eventually we are
able to get to a point
where we no longer have
those trapped emotions, where
the body is clear of those.
And at that point, it's like
stepping out of the old skin
that we've been carrying
all these years,
and we step out of
that and we become
this person that we were really
intended to be in this world.
And that's what this
is about, and that's
why this is so powerful.
>>NOORY: That clip was from the
Gaia documentary "E-motion."
What does it mean, though, Brad?
>>NELSON: Well, we all
have emotional baggage,
whether we remember
everything that's
gone on in our lives that was
emotionally powerful or not.
And like I mentioned before,
some of the emotional baggage
that we're dragging
through our lives
is from the lives
of our ancestors.
>>NOORY: That far back?
>>NELSON: Yes.
In fact, I'll share
a story with you.
My daughter was
working on me one day.
And the Emotion Code can
be done at a distance.
And we have almost--
we'll soon have
5,000 practitioners
around the world in about 74
countries so far that are--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>NELSON: --certified
in the Emotion Code.
>>NOORY: You train them?
>>NELSON: Yep.
And so they do the
Emotion Code, and they
have clients in other
countries and so on because it
can be done at a distance.
And it is all about entanglement
and quantum physics.
But it's the practical
application of that knowledge,
you see.
So I asked my daughter
to work on me one day.
And she was in Seattle,
and I was in Southern Utah
where I work--
>>NOORY: And she does
this, then, obviously?
>>NELSON: Yeah, she does this.
And so this was a
number of years ago,
two years after "The
Emotion Code" came out.
So she's working on me.
And right away she
finds that I have
an inherited trapped
emotion of hopelessness.
And I had gotten it, she
finds through testing,
from my father.
He got it from his mother.
She got it from her mother.
And it goes back 22
generations from me.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>NELSON: Yep-- to a
grandmother of ours
that probably lived in
Ireland somewhere late 1400s.
And when my daughter arrived
at this conclusion, all
of a sudden she could feel
the presence of this woman,
this grandmother.
She could feel her
standing right next to her.
And she could feel her emotions.
She could feel how
desperate she was
to have this emotional energy
released from her posterity,
and she could also feel how
overwhelmed with gratitude
this woman was that
this was being done.
So my daughter
released that energy.
Now, she, my daughter,
had received it from me
at conception.
And science is now bearing
this out that animals--
so far they're finding
that animals transfer
energetic memories somehow.
They still don't know how.
But it's what we call
inherited trapped emotions.
Well, for me, it was one
of most powerful healings
I have ever had because
all my life, George,
I struggled with this background
feeling of hopelessness.
In fact, during--
>>NOORY: And did you
know you had this?
>>NELSON: No, I just knew
that I struggled with it.
I had no idea that
I had this emotion.
In fact, I thought I
had been cleared out
of all my emotional
baggage years before.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>NELSON: But sometimes
things show up
when they're supposed to.
And if you would have
asked me during the time,
during the year or two that
I was writing "The Emotion
Code," if you would have asked
me to describe it in one word
how the project felt, I
would, without hesitation,
have used that word.
I would have said hopeless.
It feels hopeless.
And when she cleared
that emotion from me--
I mean, every time
I go to write,
every day, I would have
to listen for half an hour
to an hour to really
positive motivational things
to get pumped up to
be able to write,
to overcome this hopelessness.
And suddenly it was like
the factory shut off.
The silence was deafening.
I couldn't feel
that energy anymore.
And I never knew.
It was always there in a
background way in my life
until that was done.
It changed my life, actually.
And it changed hers, as well.
She was an artist, see.
She is an artist.
But she had never
painted anything
until that energy was removed,
that hopeless energy from all
those generations ago, 22
generations, hundreds of years
ago.
And within a year, she had
an art showing in Seattle,
and all this art was
just pouring out of her.
Now, if you think
about your own life--
think about your ancestors.
What did they go through?
All of our ancestors went
through traumatic things
at some point or another.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>NELSON: And the subconscious
mind of that individual, then,
often will feel, OK,
this is important,
what happened to me just now
with the pogrom or with the war
or whatever.
I need to share this
energy, this emotion,
because it could save the life
of someone in my posterity.
It's all unconscious, right?
But that's what happens.
That energy, then, is shared.
And it's really one energy.
But that's quantum physics.
One energy can be in an
infinite number of places.
So when it's released
from the living person,
it releases from all of that
posterity all the way back.
This is what we
find on the testing.
So it's quite an amazing thing.
It's making-- when we
release an inherited emotion,
it helps not only the
living human being,
but there's this big
ripple effect that happens.
And I'll tell you what
I've come to believe.
I believe that this Earth,
of course, as you well know,
is in this
transformational process.
>>NOORY: Constantly.
>>NELSON: Constantly.
And we're trying to
get to this new world.
And I believe that
it can't happen
without those that have
already lived on this world,
on this planet.
They're all still around.
They're still around.
They're still here.
And it's going to transform
with the living and those
that have passed on.
And this is just a little
way to help them, too.
At least this is what
we find on the testing.
>>NOORY: Dr. Nelson,
you have talked
about how important
the subconscious
mind is for healing, as well.
How do you tap into that?
Because if it's subconscious,
you're really not aware of it,
but it's there.
>>NELSON: Right.
That's really the key.
I believe that the
future of all healing
is going to be just that,
tapping into that subconscious
mind that is wholly aware
with a perfect understanding
of everything that needs to be
done to help the individual be
well and get healthy and
so on and live the longest
life possible.
So we use different methods
of doing that, of tapping
into the subconscious mind.
One of the simplest
methods that I
can share with
the audience right
now is what we
call the sway test.
Now, a plant will grow towards
light coming in from a window.
A plant will grow away from
harsh negative sounds coming
out of a speaker.
They've proven that.
And the human body will
respond in the same way.
So in other words, if
you're holding thoughts
of truth or positivity or
congruency and you're standing
and you're very relaxed,
your subconscious mind
will tend to move your
physical body forward.
You'll start to lean forward
towards those thoughts
because they're perceived
as being in front of you
because we're always
used to dealing
with the world in front of
us, the work at our desk
or whatever.
On the other hand,
the subconscious mind
will tend to make
you sway backwards
if you're holding thoughts
of negativity or falsehood
or incongruity.
So you can try this at home.
You can try thinking of
something negative, like war,
and as you're holding that
thought, if you're standing
very relaxed, what will
happen is as you focus
on that thought or any
negative thought that you want,
any negative emotion that
you want, what will happen
is you'll start
to sway backwards.
On the other hand, if you're
holding thoughts of love,
unconditional love, gratitude,
thinking about maybe a person
that you're overwhelmed
with gratitude for, maybe
a parent or a loved
one, what will happen
is your body will
start to sway forward.
And you can try this at home.
But this is one of the ways you
can tap into the subconscious
mind is you can ask questions
or make statements-- do I have
a trapped emotion, for example.
And as you hold that
thought in your mind,
as you're standing
there totally relaxed,
your body will sway forward
for yes or back for no.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>NELSON: Now, we can
also use other methods.
There are a number of
self-testing methods
that we teach in the Emotion
Code and the Body Code.
There's this one that we
call the ring in ring method
where your body, you see,
will be slightly stronger when
the subconscious mind is
radiating a yes answer.
And so the rings will
tend to stay together
if you pull them apart.
If you say something
and the answer is no
or you're thinking of
something that's not true,
what will happen is your
body will be slightly weaker.
And so the rings will
tend to break apart, see.
And so there are
one-handed methods.
There's the flick
method, like this.
You can test, what we call
this one, the elbow test.
You can press down for yes.
It will be strong on yes and
it will go weaker on no--
lots of different methods.
Testing other people-- one
person can hold out their arm
and you can press
down on their arm.
And I'm sure you've
seen that many times.
If they say their name is
their name, they'll be strong.
somebody else's, then they'll
be weak.
Yeah.
But this is how we tap in
to the subconscious mind.
And the Body Code, starting with
the Emotion Code, of course,
that's how we can find inherited
emotions that otherwise you'd
never know about.
That's how we can find,
really, any kind of imbalance
that might be going
on in the body.
And that's really how
the Body Code works.
And the amazing
thing about it is
you can find things
that otherwise you'd
never, ever be able to find.
Let me tell you a story.
There was a woman that
came in to see me.
She'd been hospitalized for five
days with this terrific pain
in her abdomen.
And there I am.
>>NOORY: Which is not good.
>>NELSON: Not good
at all, right?
And it was really severe,
and they ran every test
that they could, kept
her there for a week.
And they finally
decided, you know what,
all these tests are negative.
And they said, we think
maybe it's all in your head
and we're going to release you.
She still had the pain.
And so she came in to see
me a couple of days later,
and she's really in pain.
And I did some testing.
And one of the
things that I found
that I thought was incidental
was that she needed chromium.
And I didn't have any at
my office at the time.
We were out of it.
And I said, I think
you need this,
but I didn't think much of it.
So the next day she
came into my office--
>>NOORY: You didn't know
how much she needed, right?
>>NELSON: I didn't know
how much she needed.
No, I had no idea.
I thought it was incidental.
The next day she comes in
and she's really in pain.
And I remember
thinking, this woman,
they must have missed something
really major in the hospital.
She's in so much pain.
>>NOORY: There's
something going on.
>>NELSON: I didn't
know what else to do.
So I used the Body
Code and started
figuring out what
her subconscious
mind was trying to say.
And out of all 867
nodes in the Body Code,
it took me right to
the nutritional node.
And out of all the nutritional
elements on that chart,
it went right to chromium.
And then I remembered.
Oh, wow.
So this showed up yesterday.
So you know what?
I think your body
really needs this.
I want you to leave right now.
Go down the street to
the health food store.
Buy some chromium.
>>NOORY: Start popping.
>>NELSON: Have them
give you some water.
Yep.
Open it up.
Take some right there.
George, 20 minutes later--
>>NOORY: No.
>>NELSON: --this woman is--
>>NELSON: --literally jumping
up and down in my waiting room,
saying, I'm fixed, I'm fixed.
>>NOORY: Just from that?
>>NELSON: She said the
instant she took the chromium,
the pain was gone.
And she asked me-- she
said, how did that work?
And I said, I have no idea.
>>NOORY: I don't know.
That is amazing.
>>NELSON: I had no idea.
>>NOORY: We have a show on
Gaia called "Open Minds,"
and Dr. Joe Dispenza was
on it talking about all
of what you've been mentioning.
>>JOE DISPENZA: Thoughts are
the language of the brain,
and feelings are the
language of the body.
And how you think and how you
feel creates a state of being.
So if you're thinking certain
thoughts that make you happy,
those thoughts will produce
certain chemicals in your body
for you to begin to feel exactly
the way you were just thinking.
The moment you feel
the way you think,
you begin to think
the way you feel.
The redundancy of that cycle,
Regina, over time, conditions
the body to become the mind.
And once the body becomes the
mind, that's called a habit.
Now, this is science.
95% of who we are by the
time we're 35 years old
is a set of memorized behaviors,
emotional reactions, beliefs,
perceptions, and
attitudes that--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: 95%-- and
we think we have free will.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, yeah.
So they function like a
subconscious computer program.
So the great example
you can use is--
you'd have to be
over 35 for this,
but you may not be able to
consciously remember a phone
number, but you can pick up
the phone, look at the numbers,
and your fingers
dial the number.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: You've
practiced it so many times
that your body knows
better than your brain.
So when it comes time
to change and people
are using 5% of
their conscious mind
to go against 95% of what they
programmed subconsciously,
you can think
positively all you want,
but if you've been
feeling negatively
for the last 35 years, that's
mind and body in opposition.
You could create
your dream board
and have all your beautiful
pictures of your future.
But if you feel unworthy, that's
mind and body in opposition.
You have to recondition
the body to a new mind.
And I think that
the process that
makes this so unique
as human beings
is a fact that we
can think about what
we're thinking about.
We can notice how we're acting.
We can pay attention
to how we're
feeling, which means we can
modify our states of being
to do a better job in life.
And that level of
metacognition or mindfulness,
because the size of
the frontal lobe,
allows us to begin to
observe who we're being
so we can do a
better job in life.
>>NOORY: I'm
beginning to realize
that the mind is an amazing
factor in all of this.
>>NELSON: Oh, absolutely.
It's the controlling factor.
The conscious mind is,
like I said, where we live
and where we spend
all of our time.
But the subconscious
mind is the part of us
that we need to get aligned,
you see, with the conscious.
Let me say it this way.
Let's imagine that
this hand of mine
represents your conscious
mind, and this hand
represents your
subconscious mind.
Now, if with your conscious mind
you want to go this direction,
but with your
subconscious mind--
>>NOORY: It takes
you someplace else.
>>NELSON: If it's
going this way,
that's the direction
you're going to go.
But as you release
these imbalances,
like trapped emotions and
other kinds of things,
from your subconscious
mind, what happens
is it brings it more
and more into alignment
with the conscious mind.
And when the conscious
and the subconscious
are actually in
alignment, that's
when things can really
start to manifest for you.
>>NOORY: Back to the woman
who needed the chromium.
>>NELSON: Right.
>>NOORY: How did you know
exactly what she needed?
Did you do a blood
chemistry test?
>>NELSON: No.
No.
In the Body Code, you
see, the Body Code
is a mind-mapping system.
And so at the first
page of the mind map,
we have these six
kinds of imbalances.
And the way that it works is,
similar to the Emotion Code,
we ask the subconscious mind--
because it knows what's
in the Body Code,
it knows what's in
the whole thing,
all 867 nodes and
understands it perfectly--
as soon as it came out,
the subconscious mind
of every person knew what was in
there because the subconscious
mind of every person is
tied into this database
of universal intelligence.
And so I simply asked, well,
where do we need to go?
What do you need?
And looking at the
Body Code, I asked,
is it something
on the left side?
We have the six nodes.
And it said, no, it
was on the right side.
Is it this one?
No.
This one?
Yes.
And I was probably testing
myself, I don't remember,
but testing her either way.
And so that, then,
opens up another node.
It's a mind-mapping system.
There are multiple levels.
It brought up this next node.
It wasn't something
on the left side.
It was something
on the right side,
according to the muscle testing.
Her subconscious mind
was taking me there,
and we went to nutritional.
And it wasn't foods or herbs.
It was nutrients.
So we went to nutrients.
And then that brings up a chart,
like the chart of emotions
in the emotion--
>>NOORY: I'm astounded by this.
This is amazing.
>>NELSON: Column A,
column B-- oh yeah.
And so then we simply ask,
well, is it in column A?
Yes.
Is it in one of the odd rows?
Is it in row one?
Yes.
Is it this nutrient?
No.
Is it this one?
Oh, it's this one, chromium.
Oh, right.
This is not unusual.
There was another
woman that I saw once
who had a problem
with a chronic cough,
and it'd been going
on for a year.
And it was so bad.
She was coughing all night long.
Her husband had moved
out of their bedroom
to the other end of the house.
And she told me--
>>NOORY: It was that
annoying for the guy.
>>NELSON: It was that bad.
He couldn't sleep.
Well, neither could she.
But she told me-- she
said, I'm afraid that this
is going to really possibly
end my marriage because it's
so difficult. And she'd
been to different people
and they couldn't tell
her what was wrong.
>>NOORY: It's like snoring.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Probably worse, even.
And so I tested her
and found that she
had some kind of a chemical
that was the underlying reason.
Now, when I say I tested, I'm
just asking her body questions
and letting her subconscious
mind guide me to the answer,
you see.
And what came up was
some kind of a chemical.
And so through intuition and
doing a little more testing,
I figured out what it was.
The chemical was
Campho-Phenique.
And she became all
of a sudden pale.
And she looked at me she
said, Campho-Phenique?
And I said, yeah,
I think that's--
at least that's
what's showing up.
I said, I think you
have a problem with it.
And she said, well, you know--
she said, every night, I
take care of this old lady.
She says, I go over
there every night.
And right as I'm
putting her to bed,
the last thing
she likes me to do
is rub her feet with
Campho-Phenique.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>NELSON: And I said, OK, well--
>>NOORY: And this lady's
breathing it in and everything.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
And that was the toxin.
So--
>>NOORY: Or it probably
gets through her skin.
>>NELSON: Oh, totally, yeah.
So I released that from her.
And that was it,
no more trouble.
>>NOORY: That was it.
>>NELSON: Yeah.
So you see, the
subconscious knows.
And this is--
believe me, George,
this is the future of
all healing, I believe,
is to finally--
after all of these
years and thousands
of years of mankind's existence,
we're finally figuring out,
wow, our subconscious minds
know really what's wrong with us
and what needs to be done.
>>NOORY: In a few
moments, you're
going to do a little
demonstration on me,
and I'll have you
go through that.
Now, can anybody
learn the Body Code?
>>NELSON: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: They can?
>>NELSON: Well, and
that was the message
that I got-- make this available
to everyone everywhere.
So that's the mission
of our company,
see, is we're getting
this translated
into different
languages, and our plan
is to make it available
to everybody everywhere--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>NELSON: --as fast as we can.
>>NOORY: Well,
there's nothing more
important than your health,
because without it, you
can't take care of yourself,
you can't take care
of the people you care about.
And that, to me,
personally, Brad,
is the most important thing.
>>NELSON: So true.
>>NOORY: The people you
care about depend on you.
And if you're not
feeling well, you're
not going to be able
to do much for them.
And you've got to
be able to fix that.
>>NELSON: Absolutely right.
Well, the beauty of this work,
the Emotion Code and the Body
Code, as well, is that
it empowers people.
Imagine being able to know why,
in the middle of the night,
your child wakes up screaming
with some kind of a problem.
We have testimonials,
thousands of testimonials
literally from all over the
world, and a lot of them
are from parents who have found
that their child had something
going on.
They were able to release
that and fix that.
For example, leg aches--
I was reading a testimonial
just the other day about a--
>>NOORY: Cramps.
>>NELSON: Leg cramps-- right.
I was reading a
testimonial the other day
from a couple who wrote in
said that their daughter would
get these terrible leg cramps.
The husband was a
massage therapist.
So he would massage
this little girl's legs,
but it would be a
very difficult thing.
And it happened again.
It had been going
on for a while.
And then she suddenly
has this realization.
You know what, maybe
there's something emotional.
And within three minutes,
the pain had all stopped.
The little girl had
stopped shaking with pain.
And they've never
come back, see.
And so think about this.
What's happening
here, George, really,
is that that higher power,
call it the Creator or God
or whatever you want--
>>NOORY: Whatever it is.
>>NELSON: But I
believe that what's
happening is this healing work,
the Emotion Code and the Body
Code, they're very unique
healing methods because they're
incredibly simple, very simple.
They're very rapid, very fast,
and easily learned by anyone.
And it's all about
the fact that there's
so much healing that needs
to take place in this world.
And so this is an invention.
These things are coming.
They've come through
me just because I
was the person chosen to do it.
But these things
aren't about me.
They're about everyone
else, you see,
and they're about
giving back this power.
Imagine if everybody
in the world
or even just a significant
number of people in the world
can become healers.
That's where we need to go,
see, because the healing has
to take place.
If we're going to get to
this next sort of iteration
of the world, it has to happen.
>>NOORY: Do you utilize
these techniques on yourself?
>>NELSON: Oh, absolutely.
Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Constantly?
>>NELSON: Well, whenever--
I check myself periodically.
And one of the
fascinating things,
for example, that we've
found in the Body Code
is that anciently
the Chinese believed,
the ancient physicians believed
that the organs and the body
and the glands
were like officials
in the kingdom of the body,
and different organs and glands
were subservient to
others, and there were all
these interconnections, right?
Well, I believe they
were absolutely right.
And I believe that all the
organs, all the glands,
all the tissues in your body,
they're all intelligent,
and you can actually ask
them if they're happy or not.
And that's how we
use the Body Code.
We believe that this is
the most advanced form
of preventive medicine that's
available on the planet
because when you actually
ask this person's organs
and glands if they're happy,
decades before they'd ever
need to really have major
intervention, they'll tell you.
Yeah, you know
what, I'm not happy.
And it's just done
through muscle testing.
But if an organ or a gland
or some part of the body
is not happy, then we
can figure out why.
Well, what is it?
Is it because there's
emotional baggage there?
Is it because you don't
have the right nutrients?
Is it because you got
toxicity going on?
What is it that's happening?
And the body will tell you.
And what I did see--
for the last 10 years
that I was in practice, most
of the people that I saw
had been told there
was no help for them,
no hope for them at all, that
what they had was incurable.
And yet, what I found was
by asking their bodies,
by asking the subconscious
mind what they really needed
and addressing
those needs, I was
able to actually help almost
all of them with just--
I could count the
exceptions on one hand.
And so that's how
powerful it is.
And it's so much more simple
than we ever imagined, see,
really.
>>NOORY: What was the
epiphany that hit you?
Beyond when you
were a young boy,
beyond as you got into
medicine and chiropractic, what
was that aha moment that
hit you and you said,
this is what I want
to do for a living?
>>NELSON: Oh, well, it was when
I was healed of kidney disease
by the two--
they were really osteopathic
physicians that--
if you remember, I think it
was in the early '60s or maybe
late '50s when the osteopathic
profession was kind of engulfed
by the AMA.
>>NOORY: They hated them,
didn't they, for a while?
>>NELSON: Exactly.
And that's why rather than
trying to get rid of them
anymore, they said, you
can become like us and you
can prescribe and so on.
So they did.
These two stayed out of
it, these two physicians,
and so they practiced
out on the edge of town,
in Great Falls, Montana where
I grew up, in a wheat field.
But yet, they
would have busloads
of people coming to see them.
And they were the
ones who healed me.
And I'll tell you what happened.
I decided I knew that
they had fixed me
and that they had healed me.
Whatever they had done
was exactly what I needed.
>>NOORY: Did you know
what they had done?
>>NELSON: Well, they
were working on me,
realigning the
spine and giving me
certain concoctions and things.
But I knew in my heart that
what they had done had fixed me,
and I was well,
because the pains
that I had would be like
being stabbed with a knife,
would put me on the ground,
take my breath away.
It was terrible.
But within about
three weeks, the pains
were much less frequent,
much less severe.
And within about a month,
I didn't have any more pain
at all.
I was only 13 years old.
And I'd forgotten that
I'd ever been sick.
And my parents took me
back to the hospital,
and they ran all the tests
again, and, as I recall,
they ran the tests twice,
and they said, well,
it's a spontaneous remission.
Whatever we did
must have helped.
But I knew these other
people had really helped me.
So I decided that's
what I wanted to do.
And I can remember
lying on my back
on their table saying,
when I grow up--
13 years old-- when I grow up,
I want to do what you're doing.
And you know what
their response was?
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>NELSON: They
said, no, you don't.
They said, if you go
to chiropractic school
or you go to some
healing school,
they'll fill your head so
full of fixed ideas and dogmas
that you won't be able to think
for yourself when you get out.
>>NOORY: You'll forget.
>>NELSON: Yeah, you'll
be like a zombie.
And so I thought--
so when I went to chiropractic
school, I was really on guard.
I thought, OK.
Teachers would say things
like, well, we figured out
this is the best way to do this,
and my internal response was,
well, maybe, but maybe
there's a better way.
>>NOORY: Find a better way.
>>NELSON: So I
was radically open
when I went through school.
And I got a lot of ribbing from
my colleagues and classmates
about that.
But I think that's
where I needed
to be to be able to bring these
healing methods into the world
because they're radically
different from everything else.
>>NOORY: Part of
your Body Code, you
have an app that you work with.
Did you create it?
Let's take a look at
it and you can tell us
what we're looking at.
>>NELSON: OK.
>>NOORY: How did
you create this?
>>NELSON: Well, I
created this using
some mind-mapping software.
And then, of course, we went
to programmers that helped
us to get it into the system.
Here you can see we're
looking at the pathogen page.
And here's the main page.
Now we're looking
at misalignments.
And any tissue can misalign.
So they're all
represented there.
Here you can see we're going
into the bones of the body.
You can see the
various different ribs.
>>NOORY: It's pretty
elaborate, isn't it?
>>NELSON: It really is.
Yeah.
It took me a year to
create the first one.
And here we're looking
at different nutrients,
and you can see there's
chromium right there on the top.
And that's how we
find things, you see.
We totally allow the
subconscious mind
to guide us and take us
wherever it wants to take us,
and it is so much
smarter than we are.
It's really amazing.
So here's heavy metals.
>>NOORY: Does it
give you conclusions?
>>NELSON: Well, every time
you go into a certain area,
you can click or just tap--
it runs on all the different
devices, mobile devices and so
on-- and it'll give
you explanations
about what something might be.
For example here's
the crown chakra,
and there's the explanation
about what it is and what to do
and how to correct these things.
So it's really this
tremendous knowledge base
that exists in this software.
It's patented
software, by the way.
But it includes every
imbalance that I
found during all those years.
It's been 30 years now as
a holistic chiropractic
physician.
And so it's a way
to really learn
how the body works
at the same time
that you're finding
things and fixing
things that need to be fixed.
>>NOORY: Now, is there something
that people would use at home?
>>NELSON: Absolutely,
they can use it at home.
In fact, the youngest
person that we
know of who uses The
Body Code successfully
is, I believe, six years old.
>>NOORY: Six years old?
>>NELSON: Six years old--
she lives in Mexico City.
And her mom told us that she
has The Body Code on her iPad,
and her daughter will
use The Body Code
and tap through and
find imbalances.
And then she'll take the
iPad to her mom and say,
Mommy, Daddy has this,
or you have this,
and her mom will check and the
little girl is always right.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
Well, you're going to do a
little demonstration on me.
Do you want to give it a try?
>>NELSON: Yeah, absolutely.
>>NOORY: And we'll feed in
some things that you need.
>>NELSON: Sure.
So I have The Body
Code on my iPad here.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NELSON: So the
first thing that we
like to do, because this work
really has come from up above,
we like to take
a moment and just
make a connection with
that higher power.
And it just takes a moment.
And just make sure
that we're connected.
And then what we can do is--
you see, the human body puts
out this energy field that's
about 12 feet in diameter.
It extends out about 6 feet
from every side of the body.
>>NOORY: So it's
hitting you, right?
>>NELSON: It's
hitting me right now.
So what I can do is
I can ask questions
and I can get answers
on myself using--
I'll just use this method
called the ring in ring method.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NELSON: So let's
look at The Body Code.
We're looking at these six
possible areas of imbalance
that are going on for you.
And we'll just ask,
first of all, what is--
we'll let your
subconscious mind--
your subconscious
mind is like Google.
We can ask a question,
it'll give us an answer.
So what's the biggest
single imbalance
that you have going on
right now that we can fix?
The single biggest
imbalance-- and now
we look at The Body
Code and we ask,
OK, is this imbalance on the
right side of the chart here?
And your body says,
no, that's weak,
see, because your
energy changes,
and it immediately
shows up in my energy.
>>NOORY: Is just picking up
something from me right now?
>>NELSON: No, just my body--
I'm just picking
up your changes.
>>NOORY: You're doing it.
>>NELSON: I'm just
picking it up.
I just ask the questions,
look at the chart.
So there's something on the
left side of this chart.
So is it a toxin?
No.
So it's not that category.
Is it something in
circuits and systems.
No, that's not it either.
So it's something in
the energies area.
So what we can do, then, is we
can tap on the Energies area
and it brings up another chart.
OK.
And these are all
the different kinds
of energies that this could be.
So let's see what it is.
I have no idea what
it is, no idea.
>>NOORY: Do I?
>>NELSON: Consciously,
no, but your subconscious
knows perfectly.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NELSON: And it's
taking us there, see.
So is this something on the
left side of this chart?
No, it's not.
So is it addictive heart
energy or an allergy
or an intolerance?
No.
The only one left is emotions.
So there's something
emotional going on with you.
Is this a trapped emotion?
Yes, it is.
OK.
So there's our emotion chart.
And so this is actually
now the Emotion Code, which
is in inside of the Body Code.
So here's how we
figure out the emotion.
There are 60 emotions in
this chart divided up into--
>>NOORY: 60.
>>NELSON: --60-- divided up
into two columns and six rows.
But watch how quickly we can
figure out what the emotion is.
Is the emotion in column A?
And the answer manifesting
from your subconscious is no.
Now, you could be on the
other side of the planet.
We would do it just
a little differently,
but the answers would manifest
instantly just like this.
So we know it's not in
column A. We just got
rid of 30 emotions out of 60.
It's in column B. Is it in one
of the odd rows in column B,
narrowing it down?
Yes.
So now we have 15
emotions left out of 60.
Is it in column B in row one?
No.
So is it in row three?
It's in row three, column B.
We have five emotions left.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NELSON: So it's either
confusion, defensiveness,
grief, self-abuse,
or stubbornness.
Let's see what it is.
Is the emotion confusion?
No.
Is it defensiveness?
Is the emotion grief?
No.
Is it self-abuse?
Is it stubbornness?
No.
Now, what that
means is, you see,
when the subconscious mind
takes you to a column and a row
and then you can't figure
out what those emotions are,
it means that the
subconscious is taking you
as far as it can
take you, but you
have to use a special word
now to get the answer.
>>NOORY: Do you see
that happen a lot?
>>NELSON: Quite a bit.
The word is "inherited."
This is how we find
inherited energy.
So is this an inherited emotion?
It is.
So is it inherited confusion?
No.
Is it inherited defensiveness?
Is it inherited grief?
Yes, it is.
It's inherited grief.
So at conception, you
got this from somebody.
Did you get it from your mother?
No.
It came from your father.
Did he get it from
somebody earlier?
Yes.
From his father?
And did he get it
from somebody earlier?
Yes, from his father.
So we have father,
father, father.
Did he get it from somebody
earlier, from his father?
So now we have four
generations, that quickly.
Your father gave it
to you, but he got it
from his dad, who got
it from his dad, who
got it from his dad.
Does this go back further
in time in more generations?
It does.
Does it go back 10 generations?
Does it go back 20?
No.
15?
14?
13?
12?
It goes back 12 generations.
>>NOORY: That's a long time.
>>NELSON: 12 generations-- yeah.
That's about-- yeah, well--
>>NOORY: 500 years?
>>NELSON: Yeah.
Yeah, about that.
So let's ask, now--
let's see here.
Well, 10 generations--
>>NOORY: Now, are
you saying something
happened 500 years ago?
>>NELSON: It would be
probably about 300 years ago,
give or take.
They say you use about 25.5
years for a generation.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>NELSON: And so something
happened about 12 generations
ago to a grandfather
of yours, and he
felt this tremendous
emotion of grief.
Now, one of the great
things about the day
and age we live in is that
you can go to Ancestry.
You might even be able
to pinpoint who that was
and where he lived and so on.
But it might give you an idea
what might have happened,
but we don't know.
But anyway, that energy
of grief was so powerful
that he shared that
with his son when
he was conceived, who
shared it with his son,
and it's been handed down
or shared down the line
all the way down to you.
And do we need to know
any more about this?
We don't.
>>NOORY: Have I probably
passed it on to my son?
>>NELSON: Let's ask.
Did you pass it to your son?
Yes.
Do you have a daughter?
>>NOORY: I have two
daughters and a son.
>>NELSON: Two daughters--
did you share this
with them, as well?
Yes.
OK.
So they all got this.
So do we need to know
anything else about this?
We don't.
But let me share
something with you
that's really interesting, OK?
Is your father still
alive or has he passed on?
>>NOORY: No, he died.
>>NELSON: He's passed on.
>>NOORY: He died a
couple years ago.
>>NELSON: One of
the things that we
find is that when we
do this inherited work,
those ancestors usually show up
for the release because they're
about have something
significant released from them,
wherever they are whatever
energy, whatever they're doing.
But let's ask, is
your father here?
He is.
I get a yes.
Are all those other
ancestors, those fathers,
grandfathers of yours,
are they all here too?
They're all here.
And so let's go ahead
and release this.
And then I want to
share a story with you.
>>NOORY: OK
>>NELSON: So to release this
now, I'm connected to you,
and they've told us
to stay in our chairs.
So I'd come over
and do this on you.
But it's OK, I can
do this on myself.
We do 10 swipes of the
fingertips or a magnet
over the governing
meridian, and that releases
this trapped emotional energy.
And let's see.
I think that's about 10.
>>NOORY: Are you
releasing it for me?
>>NELSON: I'm
releasing it from you.
So let's ask, did we
release that from you?
We did.
Did it clear from your dad?
Yes.
Did it clear from his dad,
from all those grandfathers
of yours all the way back?
Yes, it did.
Did it also clear from your
son and your two daughters?
It did.
Now, let me share
a story with you.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NELSON: I was at
a conference once
and I was asking
for a volunteer,
and this woman comes
up out of the audience.
And she's got this--
she limps up there.
She's got a pain in her
hip that's about a nine
on a zero to 10 scale.
And she says she's
had it for a year,
and she's been to
different people, doctors.
They haven't been able to
fix it or figure it out.
So I tune into her, and
I start testing her,
and I find an
imbalance, and I fix it,
and the pain goes
from a nine to a four.
And then the next
thing that I find
is that she has an
inherited emotion of fear,
and it goes back--
I believe it was 12
generations, like this one.
You never know-- went
back 12 generations.
And so I muscle tested her.
I had her hold out her arm.
She'd gotten it from
her father, and he'd
gotten it from his father,
just like this one.
I had her hold her arm out
and I said, OK, are those
grandfathers all here
with us right now?
And the answer came back
very, very strong, yes.
And so I released the
emotion, and the pain
was completely gone,
and she's literally
dancing around the stage,
this woman who had limped up.
It was so bad before
that she'd literally
have to manually lift her leg
to get in and out of her car.
And so she eventually goes
back out to the audience,
I finish my lecture, and I
go back to our little booth
that we have there
with some of my staff.
And about a minute after
I got back to the booth,
a woman comes up to the booth
and here's what she says.
She says, listen, Dr. Nelson.
She said, I want you
to know something.
She said, I was in the
audience there, and she said,
I want you to know that I have
had this gift, this ability
to see spirits that
other people don't see,
and I've had it all my life.
And you've talked
to people like this.
>>NOORY: Yep.
>>NELSON: And there
are more of these
that are coming out
of the woodwork now,
people like this
that have this gift.
But she said, I
wanted you to know,
she said, when you were talking
about those ancestors of hers,
that they were on the
stage there with you,
she said, I saw all of them.
They were just
like you described.
They were right there.
But, she said, there was
something else going on,
that she said, I don't know if
you were aware of, she said,
what I saw was
surrounding the stage were
at least 200 spirits of this
woman's unborn descendants.
And she said they were there
rejoicing that they were not
going to have to take
on this crippling energy
from this woman.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>NELSON: And I just
thought, wow, no, I
was not aware of that.
>>NOORY: Now, in my
case, with this release,
what will I feel or see?
>>NELSON: I don't know.
But your subconscious
mind said that's what
you needed to have done.
>>NOORY: And it's gone now?
>>NELSON: Now, what
we can do is we
can ask where that energy
was because, you see,
when you have a
trapped emotion, it's
like a little ball
of energy from about
the size of a baseball to
maybe the size of a softball.
And these will lodge and
reside somewhere in the body,
usually in the trunk,
but you never know.
But we can do is we
can get some more
information about this emotion.
Where was this
thing in your body?
Was it on the left side
of your body, this energy?
No.
Was it in the midline?
It was on the right
side of your body.
So I like to use the diaphragm,
that thin sheet-like muscle.
It's a great divider between
upper and lower body.
So was this above
your diaphragm?
No, it was in the
lower part there.
So was it affecting the colon?
Was it in the abdomen?
Yeah.
Lower abdomen?
Lower right abdomen?
OK.
So here's-- I'll tell you
exactly what it was probably
doing.
There's a little valve
down there called
the ileocecal valve where--
when you eat food, it
goes in the stomach,
then in the small intestine,
and it goes around and around,
and eventually the
small intestine
joins the large intestine in the
right lower area of the body.
And right above the appendix
is where this little valve is.
It's called the ileocecal valve.
This emotion would tend
to short out that valve.
And so that would
maybe tend to cause--
could tend to
cause low back pain
and/or maybe some
right hip pain for you,
or it might tend to
create discomfort down
in that right lower area
for you of the abdomen,
and/or it may cause
sinus drainage for you,
because when people have this
phenomenon, this malfunctioning
valve, fecal material,
it's supposed
to go through that
valve, and then
that valve is supposed to
shut the door behind it so it
doesn't back flow-- it's
supposed to be a one-way valve.
When the valve malfunctions,
you tend to not eliminate
as well as you should.
And so the body will start
to reabsorb waste materials
into the blood.
And then the next
thing that happens,
they start to overflow
from the blood,
and they overflow through
the nasal sinuses.
So you'll tend-- not
everybody, but a lot
of people who have
this kind of imbalance
will tend to get sinus drainage.
And so their sinuses
might drain, drain, drain.
They might think
they have allergies.
They might take allergy
medication when in reality it's
this valve that's about
as far from the sinuses
as you can think.
So-- yeah.
So any of those issues,
I think this may
have actually manifested as.
>>NOORY: Doctor, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>NELSON: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Fascinating
material on the Body Code.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]